# Moorea_Pocillopora

In collaboration with major aims of the NSF [E5 project](https://e5coral.org/) to examine the effects of environmental stressors that shift the coral-microbe symbiosis on epigenetics, gene expression, and organismal physiology on carry over across generations, also known as cross-generational epigenetic inheritance, or parental effects, *Pocillopora spp.* are being sampled in Mo'orea, French Polynesia throughout gametogenesis on the northshore backreef (Mahana (17°29'12.5"S 149°53'16.1"W)) and foreef (Ōpūnohu Bay (17°29'07.1"S 149°51'30.3"W)) environments. Through the monthly timepoint sampling, we will be collecting data on histology, physiology, and epigenomics. Original tagging and sampling of 10 *Pocillopora* spp. colonies was completed by the Putnam Lab and Centre de Recherches Insulaires et Observatoire de l’Environnement ([CRIOBE ](http://www.criobe.pf)) postdoctoral researcher Alexandre Fellous in January 2022 on the northshore backreef environment. Since there has been previously recorded variation in reproductive ecology, settlement, and recruitment between the backreef and forereef environments, our team decided to begin sampling from an additional 10 *Pocillopora* spp. colonies on the northshore forereef for the timeseries. Monthly timepoint sampling will be carried out for this project until October 2022 for spawning in collaboration with CRIOBE. We will be processing physiological measurements (symbiont densities, chlorophyll content, total protein, surface area,  and tissue biomass) for collected and preserved samples, measuring bleaching score on *in situ*, decalcifying histological samples, and collecting molecular and histological samples over the next eight months. Thus far, 10 *Pocillopora* spp. have been sampled from the backreef in January, February, and March 2022, and 10 *Pocillopora* spp. have been sampled from the forereef in February, and March 2022. 

## Data Tracking
All data will be updated to this GitHub repo and uploaded to the [Pocillopora_Sampling_Google_Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1w3KdwBZaaAFh8UdbOXM3KZCofldOC53i). A freezer list for all samples can be found [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1nDgpn11vObWHyRcG5Qb2NstzV8tTP647Pb6OeyUiF-0/edit#gid=512468433).
